In the last section of this course you have learned how to convert your eloquent models to adjacent
data so we can return them as Jason from your API and points.
And in this section we'll learn and understand why a lot of oil keeps separate files for defining traditional
Web site and points in the web BHP file and the API and points in the API pdb file.
But before we try to understand what is inside this diagram let's go to the Visual Studio code and open
open all the necessary files.
So what I mean by that is the Web page be fired from The Roots folder their API BHP from routes folder
their route service provider from up providers which is responsible for registering all these routes
then open the kernel BHP file because we'll be also talking about middleware and middleware groups and
finally open that out of BHP from settings to understand the basics of what are the differences between
authenticating your normal and points the web and points and API and points.
So first let's head to the Web.
BHP file to remind ourselves the basics of fruiting.
So we already know that we can use that HDB verbs like get or post to register our root for a specific
URL and then specify which controller method is responsible for that or define our closure directly
in the root file.
We also know that we can give a name to our route and we can apply some middleware.
This can even be an array or a comma separated list of parameters which then with the names of the middle
whereas we also know that we can use either that only or exclude method to specify which methods we
would like from resource controllers which in turn register the standard set of the possible things
you can do to a resource like index get one create shoulder form and et cetera no important thing to
remember about what we see right here is that each of those individual middleware calls or the name
calls only applies to the route that you are defining here.
So this name will only be applied to that route and this middleware can home secret will only be applied
to the route which has the URL slash secret.
So you have to digest it.
That's important.
It's only applied to this route now if you will go to the route service provider you can see that defining
groups using map web routes and map API routes looks very similar.
But the important part is that it starts with specifying some middleware some namespace and then this
group call is very important.
It's important because group is a method that allows us to specify some settings for a group of routes.
So in this case we are loading the routes from the file.
So what it can be translated With is apply the middleware from the group Web.
Let's take a quick look at what that is.
It's inside kernel BHP middleware groups and a group Web is a set of this middleware.
So all of those middleware will be applied then we have a namespace and namespace is basically telling.
What is the controller and namespace for all of those routes.
And this is also defined by default as up HDP controllers which means that by default those routes will
be attempted to be find inside this particular folder.
And then these groups is this group method call is telling that those settings that you have called
before should be applied to everything that is being found inside the web BHP file.
So instead of applying the middleware WEP call to all of those specific groups here inside where BHP
using group we can apply it to a group of the routes defined.
And essentially this is the same as the map API roots method works.
But this time it's also calling a prefix so prefix is just adding a new URL prefix to every route.
Now we are using the middleware from the API group and this is for a reason because when you have your
normal traditional endpoints you might want to start a session.
You might want to share some errors inside the session verify CSF tokens because you have forms that
you submit.
We've also created our own local middleware that keeps some data inside this session but the difference
between the Web routes and basically traditional websites and API is is that the traditional one is
creating and keeping a session because this is being stored inside the browser so you are creating a
session and then you send back a session cookie.
So browser knows about this.
It keeps that for between all the requests then it transparently because users do not notice that since
but this cookie.
Back to the server and it is being read by your lateral application so it knows that for example you
were authenticated and well basically this means that we are keeping us state.
Well let's see an example of this.
So that's the end point that we have created that posts comments to display the comments of a blog post
and this was defined inside the web BHP file which means it has all the middleware from the Web group
applied.
Now if you will send this request even though we are sending it from postmen which is not a web browser
you can see that you get some cookie spark and one of those is the lot of session.
So this will actually generate a brand new session each time you make requests because to keep your
session and will be recognized as the same person that did the initial request.
You will have to send it back to the next request.
And of course post month doesn't care about that.
It's just calling an H GDP end point with some parameters and getting a response back.
So basically if you will look closely if I will make a next request this is a little bit different so
you probably have to post a video to compare but well just trust me that it is different on each request.
So now let's go back to the diagram and now you can understand why those routes are defined separately
in web speech.
B you have the traditional routes that are being handled by your web browser which has some session
some indicator of the state of who you are to track the same user.
And in API those requests are stateless because as you seen from postman it doesn't care about and session
cookies and this might also be the case with your javascript the front end code that dwell.
You once sent the cookie back then your session is being lost.
So typically if you will create some API endpoints those will be stateless.
So the server won't keep track of the user so you will have to authenticate somehow or say that you
are who you think you are on each individual request and that's the difference in the ID methods for
normal web routes and API routes.
And it is that in web you will authenticate once and then your credentials will be stored inside the
session and inside the cookies.
Well not actually credentials but some proof that you are actually authenticated and with API as you
will have a token which might be anything some random stream that you will send on each individual API
request and this will be verified each time to see if you are the person who you claim you are.
Now let's also go through this methods so those who route class methods allow you to specify not only
the middleware for a particular route but also to a group of routes.
We also know that we can use namespace to specify what is the peach B namespace for the controllers
that we will be using.
And I'm mentioning this because we will be actual using a separate namespace for for our API controllers
and well this is recommended in of now we have a prefix method and this method was called inside the
map API routes and what this will do is this would add an API prefix to the older you URLs of all the
routes that you will define inside API p p.
You can see that in action if you will run beach B artisan route least we have to find one particular
route that is already defined so that's closure.
Is this this is this one.
And you can see that the API is being added as a prefix to the you or I.
Now you can also check on the right what middle where was applied and.
Well this has all the middle worst from the API group.
Now the name we have only used names so far to give a name to our particular route.
But you can also give a kind of name prefix to all of your roots and this makes sense if you would like
to define corresponding routes for traditional Web sites and API like like lets say you have post comment
controller in both places then you can give some name prefix to everything let's say from the API.
And finally the most important method a group which basically is saying that everything that you have
called before should apply to the group of the routes that you are defining either in a file like it
is being done inside the route service provider or alternatively this can be a closure so inside the
API BHP you can call this method group to apply some settings to all the routes and then inside it justifying
the routes directly in this file.
So those are the basics of why we have this separation so why that separate web routes separate API
routes.
You also know where do you define them of course you can modify this methods.
This is not set in stone.
You can modify it you modify them as you wish.
You can even change this prefix for API or not use any prefix at all.
And also you should understand what are the middleware groups why they are defined and why there is
something different for the API and web.
For example that API doesn't have session so you don't need a middleware that starts the session and
one final thing because we have opened that of BHP is how do you specify the authentication for your
particular end points so you can see that in API BHP this default route created by a lot of oil has
this API middleware applied which means use that of middleware and here you are specifying the guard
you would like to use which is API and if you will go to our peach bee you can see those settings for
defaults are that the default guard is web which means session authentication but there are also two
cards defined out of the box the web one which uses the driver session.
As I've explained and another one is API which is using the driver token we'll talk about the token
authentication so don't worry about this right now just so we know a lot out of the box provides two
possible settings for the driver which is session or token based authentication and basically this middleware
here is telling that every route defined inside it if you will if we will use group or this particular
route has to has to use the API guard which means token authentication so we've got some basics covered.
Now let's try to actually define some routes and see how that all works in practice in the next lecture.